README.md, before:

# National Carbon Credit Fraud Detection Platform

**Solving the Trust Crisis in Carbon Markets through AI & Transparency.**

## 🌍 The Problem
The voluntary carbon market is plagued by **double-counting**, **inflated claims**, and **phantom projects**. 
- Companies claim credits for forests that don't exist.
- Multiple entities sell the same credit twice.
- Auditors lack real-time data to verify claims.

## 💡 The Solution
This platform introduces a **Digital Oversight Layer** that sits between Companies and the Government/Public. It solves fraud through three key mechanisms:

### 1. Trusted Verification Workflow (RBAC)
We replaced the "honesty system" with a strict **Government-Gatekeeper Model**.
- **Entities cannot act** until verified by a Government Authority.
- **Role Separation**: 
    - **Company**: Submits raw data.
    - **Government**: Validates legal standing.
    - **AI Engine**: Validates physical reality.

### 2. AI-Driven "Reality Check" (Simulation)
Every credit submission undergoes an automated **Cross-Reference Analysis**:
- **Input**: User claims 5000 tons of CO2e from "Amazon Sector 4".
- **Logic**: The system (simulated) pulls satellite vegetation indices (NDVI) for that coordinate.
- **Output**: A **Risk Score (0-100)**. 
    - *High Risk*: Discrepancy between claim and satellite data. -> **Flagged for Investigation**.
    - *Low Risk*: Consistent data. -> **Auto-Approved**.

### 3. Public Transparency
Sunlight is the best disinfectant. The **Public Registry** allows any citizen or auditor to:
- View "Qualified" vs "Pending" projects.
- See the audit trail of who approved a project and when.
- File anonymous complaints if they suspect local malpractice.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Prerequisites
1.  **Node.js** (v18+)
2.  **MongoDB** (Local or Atlas)

### Installation & Run
The project is split into `backend` (API/Data) and `frontend` (UI/Dashboards).

**1. Start Backend (The Brain)**
```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run seed     # ⚠️ IMPORTANT: Seeds realistic "Fraud" & "Verified" demo scenarios
npm run dev
```

**2. Start Frontend (The Interface)**
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```
Access the app at: **http://localhost:5173**

---

## 🔑 Demo Scenarios (Problem-Solving Showcases)

Log in to experience the different sides of the solution:

### 🕵️‍♂️ Scenario A: The Government Overser
**User**: `government@user.in` | `Password12`
- **Goal**: Detect Anomalies.
- **Action**: 
    1. Go to **Dashboard**.
    2. Check the **"Live Monitor"** tab.
    3. See real-time **"High Severity"** flags generated by the seed script.
    4. Use the **Filter** button to focus on "High Priority" risks.

### 🏭 Scenario B: The Compliant Company
**User**: `company@user.in` | `Password12`
- **Goal**: Submit a Legitimate Claim.
- **Action**:
    1. Go to **New Submission**.
    2. Upload a "Evidence PDF" (Simulation).
    3. Watch the **AI Analysis Toast** verify the document.
    4. See the immediate **Risk Score** feedback.

### 👁️ Scenario C: The Public Auditor
**User**: `people@user.in` | `Password`
- **Goal**: Verify Transparency.
- **Action**:
    1. Go to **Public Registry**.
    2. Search for verified projects.
    3. Confirm that "High Risk" projects are NOT listed publicly.

---

## 🛠️ Architecture & Tech Stack

While the focus is on the solution, the technology enables the scale:

- **Frontend**: React (Vite) + **Tailwind CSS** (for rapid, professional UI).
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express + **MongoDB** (for flexible schema evolution).
- **Security**: JWT Auth + **Role-Based Guards** (Middleware).
- **Communication**: REST APIs with **Axios Interceptors** for reliable data fetching.
- **Quality**: **TypeScript** everywhere to prevent logic errors.

---

## 📂 Project Structure
- `backend/src/scripts/seed.ts`: The "Simulation Engine" that generates the fraud scenarios.
- `frontend/src/features/gov`: The Oversight Dashboards.
- `frontend/src/features/company`: The Compliance & Submission tools.

Commit message:

UI Polish: Switched to Light Theme & Fixed Chart Overlaps. Build Stability Fixes.

README.md, after:

# National Carbon Credit Fraud Detection Platform

**Solving the Trust Crisis in Carbon Markets through AI & Transparency.**

## 🌍 The Problem
The voluntary carbon market is plagued by **double-counting**, **inflated claims**, and **phantom projects**. 
- Companies claim credits for forests that don't exist.
- Multiple entities sell the same credit twice.
- Auditors lack real-time data to verify claims.

## 💡 The Solution
This platform introduces a **Digital Oversight Layer** that sits between Companies and the Government/Public. It solves fraud through three key mechanisms:

### 1. Trusted Verification Workflow (RBAC)
We replaced the "honesty system" with a strict **Government-Gatekeeper Model**.
- **Entities cannot act** until verified by a Government Authority.
- **Role Separation**: 
    - **Company**: Submits raw data.
    - **Government**: Validates legal standing.
    - **AI Engine**: Validates physical reality.

### 2. AI-Driven "Reality Check" (Simulation)
Every credit submission undergoes an automated **Cross-Reference Analysis**:
- **Input**: User claims 5000 tons of CO2e from "Amazon Sector 4".
- **Logic**: The system (simulated) pulls satellite vegetation indices (NDVI) for that coordinate.
- **Output**: A **Risk Score (0-100)**. 
    - *High Risk*: Discrepancy between claim and satellite data. -> **Flagged for Investigation**.
    - *Low Risk*: Consistent data. -> **Auto-Approved**.

### 3. Public Transparency
Sunlight is the best disinfectant. The **Public Registry** allows any citizen or auditor to:
- View "Qualified" vs "Pending" projects.
- See the audit trail of who approved a project and when.
- File anonymous complaints if they suspect local malpractice.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Prerequisites
1.  **Node.js** (v18+)
2.  **MongoDB** (Local or Atlas)

### Installation & Run
The project is split into `backend` (API/Data) and `frontend` (UI/Dashboards).

**1. Start Backend (The Brain)**
```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run seed     # ⚠️ IMPORTANT: Seeds realistic "Fraud" & "Verified" demo scenarios
npm run dev
```

**2. Start Frontend (The Interface)**
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```
Access the app at: **http://localhost:5173**

---

## 🔑 Demo Scenarios (Problem-Solving Showcases)

Log in to experience the different sides of the solution:

### 🕵️‍♂️ Scenario A: The Government Overser
**User**: `government@user.in` | `Password12`
- **Goal**: Detect Anomalies.
- **Action**: 
    1. Go to **Dashboard**.
    2. Check the **"Live Monitor"** tab.
    3. See real-time **"High Severity"** flags generated by the seed script.
    4. Use the **Filter** button to focus on "High Priority" risks.

### 🏭 Scenario B: The Compliant Company
**User**: `company@user.in` | `Password12`
- **Goal**: Submit a Legitimate Claim.
- **Action**:
    1. Go to **New Submission**.
    2. Upload a "Evidence PDF" (Simulation).
    3. Watch the **AI Analysis Toast** verify the document.
    4. See the immediate **Risk Score** feedback.

### 👁️ Scenario C: The Public Auditor
**User**: `people@user.in` | `Password`
- **Goal**: Verify Transparency.
- **Action**:
    1. Go to **Public Registry**.
    2. Search for verified projects.
    3. Confirm that "High Risk" projects are NOT listed publicly.

---

## 🛠️ Architecture & Tech Stack

While the focus is on the solution, the technology enables the scale:

- **Frontend**: React (Vite) + **Tailwind CSS** (for rapid, professional UI).
- **UI/UX**: Default **Light Mode** for clean visibility, with **Recharts** for data visualization.
- **Backend**: Node.js + Express + **MongoDB** (for flexible schema evolution).
- **Security**: JWT Auth + **Role-Based Guards** (Middleware).
- **Communication**: REST APIs with **Axios Interceptors** for reliable data fetching.
- **Quality**: **TypeScript** everywhere to prevent logic errors.

---

## 📂 Project Structure
- `backend/src/scripts/seed.ts`: The "Simulation Engine" that generates the fraud scenarios.
- `frontend/src/features/gov`: The Oversight Dashboards.
- `frontend/src/features/company`: The Compliance & Submission tools.
